Pd 344 operator uninstall (#576)
portworx/pxdocs: content/portworx-install-with-kubernetes/on-premise/openshift/operator/uninstall.md

---
title: Uninstall Portworx using the Operator
keywords: portworx, container, kubernetes, storage, docker, k8s, pv, persistent disk, openshift
description: Learn how to uninstall Portworx on Openshift using the Operator.
weight: 5
---

> If you're using the Portworx Operator, you can uninstall Portworx by creating an uninstall spec. When uninstalling, you may choose to either keep the the data on your drives, or wipe them completely.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're using the Portworx Operator, you can uninstall Portworx by just deleting the StorageCluster spec. When uninstalling, you may choose to either keep the the data on your drives, or wipe them completely by specifying a delete strategy.
```

Author: I thought we wanted to avoid mentioning that users can delete the storageCluster spec since it leaves that service running.

Reviewer: Finally they do have to delete the spec to uninstall Portworx.
The only thing we want to them is to have a deleteStrategy before deleting it. Deleting the object without a deleteStrategy leaves the service running.

Author: ah, so they have to:
1. modify the storageCluster object, adding the deleteStrategy
2. delete the object

## Prerequisites

* You must already be running Portworx through the Operator, this method will not work for other Portworx deployments

## Uninstall Portworx

> 1. Create a `deleteStrategy` spec, specifying either the `Uninstall` or `UninstallAndWipe` type:

Reviewer: We do not create a delete strategy spec, we add to our existing storage cluster spec. How about - 
`Add a deleteStrategy in your StorageCluster spec, ..`
or
`Modify your StorageCluster to add a deleteStrategy..`

After the above line we should give command to edit the StorageCluster like we do for upgrade Portworx
https://docs.portworx.com/portworx-install-with-kubernetes/on-premise/openshift/operator/upgrade/#upgrade-portworx
```
  oc edit -n kube-system <storagecluster_name>
```

    * Uninstall Portworx only:

        ```text
        spec:
          deleteStrategy:

>             type: Uninstall

Reviewer: Let's show a little more of the sample spec like we do for upgrade. People may get the context quicker if they see this is the StorageCluster spec. What do you think?
```
 apiVersion: core.libopenstorage.org/v1alpha1
  kind: StorageCluster
  metadata:
    name: portworx
    namespace: kube-system
  spec:
    deleteStrategy:
      type: Uninstall
```

        ```
    * Uninstall Portworx and wipe all drives:

        {{<info>}}

> **WARNING:** Wipe operations remove all data from your disks permanently, use caution when applying the DeleteStrategy spec.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**WARNING:** Wipe operations remove all data from your disks permanently including the Portworx metadata, use caution when applying the DeleteStrategy spec.
```

        {{</info>}}

        ```text
        spec:
          deleteStrategy:
            type: UninstallAndWipe
        ```

> 2. Apply the `deleteStrategy` spec to uninstall Portworx:

Reviewer: If we have the edit command above, then we don't need the apply command below.
Second step should be to delete the StorageCluster spec so the operator can start deleting Portworx according to the deleteStrategy specified.

---
title: Uninstall Portworx using the Operator
keywords: portworx, container, kubernetes, storage, docker, k8s, pv, persistent disk, openshift
description: Learn how to uninstall Portworx on Openshift using the Operator.
weight: 5
---

> If you're using the Portworx Operator, you can uninstall Portworx by modifying your `StorageCluster` object, then deleting it. When uninstalling, you may choose to either keep the the data on your drives, or wipe them completely.

Reviewer: How about the following instead of saying `modifying and then deleting`?
```suggestion
If you're using the Portworx Operator, you can uninstall Portworx by adding a delete strategy to your `StorageCluster` object, then deleting it. When uninstalling, you may choose to either keep the the data on your drives, or wipe them completely.
```

## Uninstall Portworx

1. Enter the `oc edit` command to modify your storage cluster:

      ```text
      oc edit -n kube-system <storagecluster_name>
      ```

2. Modify your `StorageCluster` object, adding the `deleteStrategy` field with either the `Uninstall` or `UninstallAndWipe` type:

    * Uninstall Portworx only:

        ```text
        apiVersion: core.libopenstorage.org/v1alpha1
        kind: StorageCluster
        metadata:
          name: portworx
          namespace: kube-system
        spec:       
          deleteStrategy:
            type: Uninstall
        ```
    * Uninstall Portworx and wipe all drives:

        {{<info>}}
**WARNING:** Wipe operations remove all data from your disks permanently including the Portworx metadata, use caution when applying the DeleteStrategy spec.
        {{</info>}}

        ```text
        apiVersion: core.libopenstorage.org/v1alpha1
        kind: StorageCluster
        metadata:
          name: portworx
          namespace: kube-system
        spec:       
          deleteStrategy:
            type: UninstallAndWipe
        ```

> 3. Enter the `kubectl delete` command, specifying the name of your `StorageCluster` object:

Reviewer: `oc delete`
even below in the actual command
